we begin with a further escalation in
Israel's military campaign against Hamas
in the Gaza Strip Israeli defense
minister yuav Galan says Israeli troops
are now operating in the heart of Gaza
City he has called Gaza the largest
terrorist base ever built meanwhile
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu has
warned there will be no fuel deliveries
until Hamas releases the more than 200
hostages it captured on October 7th
here's what Netanyahu had to say
the fighting in the south is advancing
with a force that Hamas hasn't known
Kaza city is
encircled we are operating in it and
deepening the pressure on Hamas every
hour every
day so far we have killed thousands of
terrorists above the ground and under
the
ground there will be no entry of fuel no
entry of workers and there will be no
ceasefire without the release of our
hostages for the latest Let's cross over
to DW's special correspondent a Ibrahim
in Jerusalem and what are you hearing
from the Israel Defense Forces about the
difficulty of their operation in and
around Gaza
City we know that so far 30 Israeli
soldiers have been killed since the
beginning of the ground operation about
a week ago and as the ground operation
enters into its next phase we can expect
this death toll uh to rise uh as well so
far uh close combat Urban Warfare has
been limited limited to urban areas but
as you just mentioned Israeli troops are
now uh inside Gaza City this is
previously one of the most populated uh
parts of the entire strip and also where
the Israeli military believes the
largest concentration of hamas's tunnel
system is located right underneath uh
Gaza a city so as this phase moves
forward we can expect more close combat
with Hamas uh militants we can expect uh
more urban Warfare as Israeli troops try
uh to rid the strip of uh uh of of Hamas
and also uh to uh release attempt to
release uh the hostages the majority of
whom are still believed to be within the
STP we can also expect um that with
Urban Warfare civilian casualties will
also Rise um the Israeli military has
repeatedly asked gazans to evacuate to
the South there are many reasons why
about 300,000 still remain there either
they're worried that there's no safe
place or as they say um they are not
able to evacuate um this is something
that t really touches almost everyone in
Israeli Society this is a country where
military service is mandatory with very
very few exceptions and over 300
reservists have uh been called up so
it's you know it's it's the effect of
this ground operation and this war is
something that you see everywhere here
in Israel so the war has been going on
now for uh for over a month are Israelis
satisfied a with the way their
government is Prosecuting this
War I would say there's pretty much
overwhelming support for the war even
though as I just mentioned it will come
at a huge cost Lo people here are
acutely aware of that but at the same
time what they tell me is that they feel
like there is no choice this is the only
way this war is the only way to first of
all regain their security um get rid of
Hamas as the government wants to do and
they feel this could also bring back the
hostages there is however mounting anger
at the government and prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu specifically we just
crossed the one month Mark since the
terror attacks of o October 7th here in
Jerusalem and elsewhere in the country
there were vigils memorials that also
turned into protests against the Prime
Minister who has so far not taken
responsibility for the major security
lapse that was October 7th so I would
say support for the war support for the
war effort but at the same time mounting
anger at the government and prime
minister Netanyahu even though it is a
Unity government that also has um
opposition
figures a thank you very much our
special correspondent AIA Ibrahim in
Jerusalem now Israel says it is entering
the next stage of its war against Hamas
whose Fighters are reportedly operating
from a large network of tunnels Israel
says militants are launching mortar
attacks against Israeli soldiers and
then retreating back underground it's a
challenging situation for Israeli forces
let's have a closer look now at the
options that Israeli forces may be
considering in this next phase with our
military expert Frank LED Frank the
tunnel system used by Hamas militants
has been described as a spider web by a
former hostage can you help us better
imagine Frank what that looks like and
how long this might have taken to
build good morning Terry yes in in Gaza
actually it's called the Gaza Metro as
well and that describes to some extent
the complexity of it it's been built
been built for about 20 years ham I
started constructing these in the early
2000s although some say a bit earlier
and the extent is is truly
vast most estimates put it it around
throughout the The Enclave at around 300
miles or 500 km long although clearly
some of those systems are more
formidable deeper and bigger than others
connecting of course with bunkers where
you have command centers and what have
you and the counter measures to be used
against them are many but this is a very
difficult challenge you'll be attacking
them from the air from the land and
indeed from the sea
so yeah now Israel has tasked a special
unit one of its special units with
finding out more about the location and
layout of these tunnels Frank how would
they go about doing
that they have no one particular method
needless to say so the unit is called
yahalom it's part of the engineering
core but it's considered a Special
Forces Unit it's extremely selective and
as you can imagine very very highly
skilled and they've been going for it
again for for quite some time and the
options available to them are probably
certainly not primarily them going into
tunnels and shooting people that would
be their very last option and probably
an option very rarely certainly very
rarely used us used such troops in in
Vietnam called tunnel rats and and these
guys would be similar in concept but not
in execution you won't be seeing them
very often underground so the weapons
that they have include but aren't
limited to or means uh they literally
smoking out tunnels so you put inert
smoke in and you can see where the
entrance and exits are it's very
difficult to counter that and then of
course once you found those you need to
seal them and there are a number of ways
of doing that first is through
explosives simply seal the entrances and
collapse the tunnels and the second well
another one there were several Emulsion
there's a an Emulsion system it's called
a
SpongeBob where you uh which can work
along a certain length of length of
tunnels it simply seals it up you have
two compounds that come together and
they expand and seal the tunnel but
there other means being looked at I
mentioned the sea before one very
Innovative uh means that it's being
considered is uh should be a bit
nightmarish for Hamas is once you've
cleared the tongs in other words you you
know this particular a particular tunnel
is clear certain of hostages show of
hostages uh considering things like
horizontal uh uh drilling from the sea
uh and considering things like flooding
so the options are many but do not
generally include these guys going
underground and shooting people they're
much too easy to defend they' be full of
booby traps and of course most
importantly the tunnels are where the
hostage and and bunkers of where the
hostages are and then of course there's
attack from the air and we've seen that
already speaking of attack from the air
uh Israel obviously wants to destroy
both the tunnels and eliminate Hamas
Fighters um from the air so-called
bunker Buster bombs can be dropped we've
we've seen those used in in other wars
in the past are we likely to see them
used in this case
Frank well Terry I think we have seen
them used seen some evidence that they
have been used already they are there
are several different kinds the primary
kind is called a GBU guided bomb unit
it's a Precision bomb very thin a GBU 23
I think now that's about 2 and a half
tons of of explosives and uh and uh and
bomb that can penetrate some say up to
about 50 m and it's worth saying that
hamas's tunnels are generally regarded
as being that that deep and they would
be used to collapse the tunnel so they
can penetrate Earth at least to 50 m but
also concrete and I I've been in bunkers
in in in Iraq and and Lebanon anded for
as a tourist in in Vietnam but a lot of
these Bonkers are lined with concrete so
what these boms will allow you to do is
not only get deep but also penetrate the
concrete uh to to a certain depth and
there are even bigger bombs have been
designed for Iran I very much doubt
we'll see those you saw one being used
in Afghanistan a few years which was
popularly known as a mother of all bombs
won't see that but the average or common
or garden bunker bombs used since the
early 90s it's roughly the same version
uh we will we will be seeing those and
we have seen them well of course we know
that Hamas is holding more than 200
hostages probably somewhere in that
tunnel system given that um how
problematic is it for Israeli forces to
be using those kinds of weapons that you
described
Frank yeah that's the top that's the top
consideration on their list and when you
you hear or read Israeli speak about
they the vital importance of clearing
any particular system which is to say
understanding and being sure that
hostages aren't there is utterly
Paramount now the Israelis have already
collapsed many of these tunnels and by
the way those bombs I talked about they
supplement of all kinds of artillery
systems and of course the yahalom unit
also comprised by the way of dogs
they've got specially trained dogs but
anyway coming back to the the hostages
the problem is that where you can use
those things but they have a a lateral
spread of of about about half a mile so
you put one in the bottom s in go go
deep it will collapse your tunnel for
for for about a
kilometer um now the Israelis have
discovered many tunnel systems and they
do that through means from all kinds of
means like again Lan CN a but one means
is by it's to human intelligence that's
probably the in my view anyway the most
important and the Israelis have
discovered tunnel maps and what have you
and and those are the systems I think
that have been collapsed so far but as
Israeli troops get further into Gaza
City
the tunnel systems are going to be a
real problem and and they' be extremely
well they won't clear any until they
sure no hostages are there this is the
number one priority but from the safety
of the Israeli troops perspective you've
already SE seen videos of this uh where
you where Hamas Fighters have shown
videos allegedly sh destroying tanks
they haven't those the the tanks systems
will have uh prevented that but the
problem is that what you do see is you
see these Fighters emerging from behind
from the side from in front as uh uh and
this is why of course the tunnel systems
is hamas's main combat weapon apart from
civilians of course one final thing
worth mentioning it's been described to
me as common knowledge now that doesn't
necessarily mean much but I you mention
it in the report that the many of the
headquarters are located under hospitals
I'm certain that's the case uh and
entries and exits in places like mosques
or schools or un some say un facilities
and that's the problem and that's why
we've seen I think so many uh
non-competent casualties so far because
Israelis have to hit these systems um
many of which have command centers and
they are located in such places not just
the hostages of course another
consideration is the civilian casualties
uh and and they yeah and the tunnels are
of course and bunkers are placed
underneath these these these
installations or these places Frank
thank you very much that was military
analyst Frank ledwidge there speaking to
us from Oxford in the
UK thanks
t